Draft benchmarking guidance section; some 22.10 and some 23.11 notes. (#41)
CTSRD-CHERI/cheribsd-getting-started: src/benchmarking/README.md

CheriBSD is a research operating system designed to run on experimental
hardware.
In this section, we provide high-level guidance on configuring CheriBSD for
software benchmarking.

# Framing

The expectation of this section is that a performance comparison is being
made between baseline aarch64-compiled software (64-bit Arm) and memory-safe
aarch64c software (CheriABI) on the Arm Morello board.

Before proceeding to the remainder of this section, it is essential to first
read [Early performance results from the prototype Morello
microarchitecture](https://ctsrd-cheri.github.io/morello-early-performance-results/cover/index.html).
That document provides detailed information on how to interpret performance
measurements, including documenting known limitations of the prototype
Morello microarchitecture.

A key conclusion from that work is that CheriABI software being used for
performance measurement should be compiled for the aarch64cb "Benchmark ABI",
and not aarch64c.

# Kernel configuration

Depending on the version of CheriBSD you are using, the kernel may have a
number of debugging fetures enabled.
These features can substantially impact system performance, including having

> inducing disproportionate performance overhead for specific system behaviours.

Reviewer: "having inducing"

```

Performance measurements employing a hybrid kernel should use the
`kernel.GENERIC-MORELLO-NODEBUG` configuration when kernel memory safety is
not required.
The following line can be added to `/boot/loader.conf`:

```
kernel="kernel.GENERIC-MORELLO-NODEBUG"
```

Measurements requiring a memory-safe kernel should use the
`kernel.GENERIC-MORELLO-PURECAP-NODEBUG` configuration.
The following can be added to `/boot/loader.conf`:

```
kernel="kernel.GENERIC-MORELLO-PURECAP-NODEBUG"
```

You will need to reboot in order for this change to take effect.

# Heap temporal memory safety

As of CheriBSD 23.11, userlevel heap temporal safety is enabled by default.
This support is experimental, and has not yet been through significant
performance analysis and optimization.
We recommend disabling temporal safety support for the full system during
benchmarking not specifically intended to capture temporal safety
performance.
During boot, CheriBSD will add the following line to `/etc/motd`, which will
be displayed at login, to warn you about the temporal safety feature:

```
WARNING: capability revocation enabled by default, this may affect performance
```

> The following line can be added to `/boot/loader.conf`:

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't it be:
```suggestion
The following line can be added to `/etc/sysctl.conf`:
```

Author: sysctl.conf is not processed until later in boot .. so processes started before that would still enable quarantining ..?

Reviewer: Yeah, it’s RWTUN so whilst you *can* set it post-boot for new processes it won’t affect existing ones. Putting it in loader.conf ensures it ends up in the kernel environment and thus initialises the sysctl before init starts (and does a whole bunch of process spawning before handling sysctl.conf).

Reviewer 2: Oh, OK. Thanks for clarifying this!
